---
layout: angular
title: Default, Redirect and Wildcard Routes
sideNavGroup: advanced
prevpage:
  title: Routing Basics
  url: /angular/guide/router/1
nextpage:
  title: Imperative Navigation and Route Parameters
  url: /angular/guide/router/3
---
<!-- FilePath: src/angular/guide/router/2.md -->
<?code-excerpt path-base="router"?>
{% include_relative _milestone-nav.md selectedOption="2" %}

## Default route

The initial URL in the browser bar after the application launches is something like:
`localhost:8080`.

That doesn't match any of the configured routes, which means that the application won't
display any component when it's launched.
The user must click one of the links to trigger a navigation and component display.

It would be nicer if the application had a **_default_ route**
that displayed the list of heroes immediately.
One way to achieve this is to add `useAsDefault: true` as an argument
to the `Heroes` route definition:

<?code-excerpt "lib/app_component_2.dart (Route.useAsDefault)" region="Route.useAsDefault" title?>
```
  const Route(
      path: '/heroes',
      name: 'Heroes',
      component: HeroesComponent,
      useAsDefault: true),
```

**Refresh the browser** and try it. Notice that the heroes list is displayed when the application launches.

## Redirect route

As an alternative solution, remove the `useAsDefault` argument that you just added,
and instead add a `Redirect` route that will translate an initial relative URL (`'/'`)
to the desired default path (`/heroes`). You can also redirect `/index.html` while
you are at it:

<?code-excerpt "lib/app_component_2.dart (Redirect)" title?>
```
  const Redirect(path: '/', redirectTo: const ['Heroes']),
  const Redirect(path: '/index.html', redirectTo: const ['Heroes']),
```

**Refresh the browser** and try it. Now the browser address bar shows `.../heroes`
as if you'd navigated there directly.

## Wildcard route

While you've created routes to `/crisis-center` and `/heroes`,
what if the router is given another URL?
Add a **wildcard** route to intercept all other URLs.

A _wildcard_ route is a route with a path starting with `/*`, followed by at least one character.
Such a route matches _every_ URL.

<div class="l-sub-section" markdown="1">
  The substring following the initial `/*` in a wildcard path defines the path segment name.
  By convention, the path `/**` is used, resulting in a path segment name of just `*`.
</div>

The router will select a wildcard route if it can't match a route earlier in the configuration.
A wildcard route can navigate to a custom "404 Not Found" component or
[redirect](#redirect-route) to an existing route, for example:

<?code-excerpt "lib/app_component_2.dart (wildcard)" title?>
```
  const Route(path: '/**', name: 'NotFound', component: NotFoundComponent)
```

## Application code {#wrap-up}

In this short iteration you've tried default, redirect and wildcard routes.
Here are the files that were added or edited:

<code-tabs>
  <?code-pane "lib/app_component_2.dart"?>
  <?code-pane "lib/src/not_found_component.dart"?>
</code-tabs>

{% comment %}
  <div class="ul-filetree" markdown="1">
  - router_example
    - lib
      - app_component.dart
      - src
        - crisis_center_component.dart
        - heroes.component.dart
        - not_found_component.dart
    - web
      - index.html
      - main.dart
      - styles.css
  </div>

  //- makeTabs(
  `router/dart/lib/app_component_2.dart,
  router/dart/lib/crisis_center_component_1.dart,
  router/dart/lib/heroes_component_1.dart,
  router/dart/lib/not_found_component.dart,
  router/dart/web/index.html,
  router/dart/web/main_2.dart`,
  '',
  `lib/app_component.dart,
  lib/crisis_center_component.dart,
  lib/heroes_component.dart,
  lib/not_found_component.dart
  web/index.html,
  web/main.dart`)
{% endcomment %}
